IDEAS
	Acronym for: ÒIDentity EnAbled networkSÓ 
	
	Proposed Charter
	
Network solutions based on the concept of Identifier/Locator separation are increasingly considered to support mobility and multi-homing across heterogeneous access networks. At the same time, end users require greater privacy for their networking information and protection from outside threats, while operators demand greater operational efficiency. Identity-enabled networks aim to enable networking applications and services that provide a high degree of privacy and control of end points over their networking data, coupled with greater inherent security than provided by today's networks. 

In order to address those challenges, identity-enabled networks introduce the concept of identity-identifier split. This split lets networks provide communication services for endpoints regardless of the particular identifier used at any particular point in time. This requires a set of services, referred to as Generic Identity Services. Those services allow to: (1) manage the lifecycle of identities and identifiers, (2) manage mappings between identities and identifiers in addition to mappings between identifiers and locators, and (3) access to a range of value-added services such as the articulation of basic communication policies that are based on the concept of identity. 
	
The provided identity services need to enable network solutions that address a range of requirements, such as:
- Privacy: The use of long-lived and public identifiers may be desirable for finding a peer, however they cause privacy issues. Indeed, when identifier-location pairs can be looked up without restriction, flows can be pinned by anybody to specific end systems. The endpoint communications should be able to change their identifier while retaining their identity and associated policies. This indirection should help discourage undesired traffic and conceal sensitive network information of end devices to eavesdroppers. 
- Common infrastructure and Primitives: The application of common and consistent basic networking policies that can apply at the level of identity reduces operational complexity associate with managing services for individual endpoint. Likewise, mapping services and infrastructure that apply to identity-identifier as well as identifier-locator mappings reduces operational and deployment complexity.
	
The Identity Enabled Networks (IDEAS) working group is chartered to develop a set of definitions, interfaces, and data models that can be used to address those requirements and that can be used with identifier-based protocols. We refer to the set of services as Generic Identity Services (GRIDS). GRIDS provides common services to enable identity-enabled networks, such as services for identity and identifier lifecycle management, mapping services, and tie-in with identity-based policy management and enforcement. 

The working group will identify gaps and make recommendations on changes needed for interface interactions between the framework and identifier-enabled protocols. As far as possible, existing technologies are leveraged to provide and to access those services. 	

The IDEAS WG is chartered to work on the following items for Identity-Enabled Networks:
	
- Registration and lifecycle management of identities and their associated identifiers.
- Identity authentication and authorization (access to framework, update of information for identifiers, using existing IETF-defined authentication methods and protocols) 
- Identifier/locator mapping and resolution (e.g. discovery, pub/sub, multihoming..)
- Definition and enforcement of basic networking policies (e.g. ability to look up an identifier-locator pair, permit forwarding traffic for particular endpoints on a per-identity basisÉ)

The IDEAS WG will collaborate with other Working Groups to ensure interoperability with LISP, HIP, ILA and other relevant work. Furthermore, it will try to reuse technologies already developed when appropriate.
	
WG deliverables include:
* Protocol, Data Model for Generic Identity Services, providing the following functions 
o Identity and Identifier Lifecycle Management (including authentication, registration, allocation, etc.; existing IETF authentication methods will be leveraged)
o Identity-Identifier Mapping and Association 
o Network identity policy and metadata (leveraging other frameworks as appropriate)
o Definition of primitives for interworking with identifier-location split protocols
* Protocol for inter-GRIDS communication
	
Milestones 
	Milestone 1 (initial):
		Protocol, Data Model, Interface for Generic Identity Services

	Target Dates:
		WG Draft Adoption Ð December 2017
		Submit to IESG for consideration as proposed standardÐ December 2018
 
	Milestone 2 (future Ð after rechartering):
		Inter-Grids Communications 
	


